in the Middle East the United Nations
says that it's had to Halt its
humanitarian operations in Gaza it comes
after the Israeli military issued a new
evacuation order for the area where AID
workers were operating from the UN is
the primary Aid distributor inside the
territory which has been devastated by
10 months of war between Israel and
Hamas the UN agency unra one of the key
humanitarian groups working in Gaza
spoke about the deteriorating situation
the space that people have been confined
to is so minimal um there are tanks uh
in areas that used to be designated as
safe areas um and this is just another
Testament to there being nowhere safe in
the Gaza Strip people have nowhere to go
there is nowhere to find safety it's
very limited access to humanitarian
resources um because the humanitarian
operations are also being displaced
Within These evacuations orders and the
humanitarian response here is being
completely strangled and limited to our
ability of what we can do well elsewhere
in the region Medics say one Palestinian
was shot dead by an Israeli settler and
five others were killed in an Israeli
air strike in the occupied West Bank the
Israeli Defense Forces confirmed the
strike in noam's Camp east of the city
of tarum and said its Target was what it
described as a command room of a
terasa let's speak to our Middle East
correspondent yoland now first of all
yand tell us more about this uh these
incidents in the West
Bank um so certainly n Shams is an urban
refugee camp in the north of the West
Bank it has seen successive Israeli
military raids uh particularly since the
start of the war in Gaza and we're
hearing from Palestinian Health
officials that there were five people
who were killed in this air strike on
house uh in the camp uh two of them were
children aged 15 and 16 this is where
the Israeli military has said um a
command center had been set up by
Palestinian armed groups um this was an
attack that took place about 10:30 local
time last night also um last night
there's videos on social media where you
can see um that people are rushing
around in this small village uh close to
Bethlehem in the south of the West Bank
called Wadi Rahal um and these bursts of
gunfire this is where local people say
that armed settlers entered into the
village late at night they started
attacking homes when men went outside uh
one man was shot and killed three other
people were wounded there has been a
real increase in Israeli military rates
in the West Bank since the start of the
war in Gaza with the Israeli military
saying it's acting against what it calls
terrorist groups and at the same time
there has been this surge in Violence by
extremist settlers um attacking
Palestinians and taking over more land
your land for the moment thank you very
much let's go live now to rala and speak
to Mustafa bouti General Secretary of
the Palestinian national initiative Dr
bouti thank you very much for joining us
here on BBC
News in is in Gaza um the IDF say that
they give warnings to civilians when
they're about to launch a strike to what
extent if any does that happen in the
West Bank
well uh I don't believe they do that in
Gaza but they definitely don't do any of
that in the West Bank people suddenly
find themselves subjected to air strikes
it is important to remember that West
Bank is an occupied territory by Israeli
Army since 57 years and when Israel uses
air strikes against occupied people it
is a total violation of international
law since the 7th of October Israel
conducted 80 air strikes on different
places in the West Bank in mainly in
refugee camps like n Shams and the tul
Karim refugee camp uh the outcome is
that 640 people have been killed
including no less than 170 children and
all these 80 a strikes there were during
there these attacks there were no
warnings
whatsoever Israel says that the Target
in the West Bank was a command room of a
terror cell is how they've described it
to what extent the talks sorry do answer
that well I don't think a 15 and 16 year
children are are are Terror leaders I I
think Israel lies and they continuously
lie and the biggest lie here is that
Netanyahu claims that he wants to have
peace but at the same time Netanyahu
does not want to end the war in Gaza by
continuously undermining all
negotiations and now he wants to expand
the war into the West Bank but they just
regarding those talks though Hamas have
not even turned up have they no they
have they've been in Cairo and they have
received all the proposals and they've
discussed them and they responded to
them but they've not done so directly
have they it's been via other conduits
no no no we we never had Israel would
not sit with Hamas to negotiate neither
would the Americans all the time
negotiations happen through mediators
which are Egypt and Qatar so nothing
changed Hamas was there but Netanyahu is
under mining the this is not my opinion
this is even the opinion of many people
from the security Israeli apparatus and
from the negotiating team who are
leaking to the media that Netanyahu is
undermining the negotiations cont
continuously because he doesn't want to
achieve an agreement he wants this war
to continue he wants to keep his
occupation of a
and he knows that the end of the war is
the end of his political career and he
doesn't even care about the Israeli
prisoners who are dying because of
Israeli bombardment as well and of
course these negotiations do go on and
they're supposed to result in the
hostage release as well as a ceasefire
uh Dr Mustafa barouti from the
Palestinian national initiative thank
you for your time